2017-04-20 14:30
Following on from the eztfl website (http://eztfl.pectw.net) where I recreated
the original TFL Countdown benefits in a pure html site, I discover another
scratch to itch: I want the site to tell me what bus stops are in front of me
given my position and location.

The original site was specifically created to be purely server-side but 
particularly fast. However geolocation - the technology required to for
this new purpose - is client-side; further, the user would be specifically
trading processing speed for application intelligence: he wants to know 
what his options Will Be, not What They Are. As this is diametrically
opposed to the original site's design goals, it's warranted we start an
whole new project instead.

The second thing a project needs, after the itch to scratch, is a name. The
original name was "eztfl", the new project will rely on html5 principles,
so how about we use eztfl-html5. There! That took all of a few seconds.

It looks like I'll be doing this publically as well, so I'll start recording
development (in this file, "eztfl-html5 thoughts") and a diary ("eztfl-html5
diary")

Project goals in depth.
eztfl.pectw.net answers the question: "I'm at bus stop X. What are my options?"
eztfl-html5 is to answer the question: "I'm at X, Y walking in direction Z. What
are my options?"
I'm interested in creating this not as an app (of which there are plenty) but
as a website. This has a far lower barrier to entry than creating apps (Which
includes $100+ for distributing Android or iOS apps, plus cost of powerful
machinery; where website development & distribution can be free.) More 
importantly, support for browsers would logically be more extensive than
support for apps: an old and cheap phone would likely support html and 
javascript better than it could support a modern app.

2017-04-20 14:55
Introducing TFL.
The task here is about London, England and her famous red buses. Public 
transport is handled by TFL - Transport for London - who have a very 
enlightened approach to their data, including a RESTful API for obtaining
"Countdown" info: which buses are arriving at any given bus stop in the 
next 30 minutes.

Introducing me as dev and the tools I'll use.
I've been programming since 1979 including games, financial sector software
and business software. I find myself in posession of a public-facing website,
domains, DNS control and SSL certificates which means I can put most things
up. I've written server-side software before, more recently using PHP. I've
also written websites in html and html5, and client-side software most 
recently using Javascript. I've connected the client-side to the server-side
and back again using AJAX principles. I've also connected clients to servers
using RESTful principles, although I may not need them here. Finally, I've
also done some work in securing software, so I'll look to bake that in as
we go.


So we'll see a 'stack' that looks like this:

client: html5
        javascript
            ^
            | (Maybe RESTful)
            V
Server: PHP
            ^
            | (Definitely RESTful)
            V
TFL:    API

Constraint: HTTPS
I happen to know beforehand that geolocation requires the use of HTTPS from 
Chrome v50 released around April 2016. I'll look to honour that even if the
browser used is not Chrome, so using HTTPS is an immediate constraint.
2017-04-20 15:18

2017-04-20 20:45
As I'm wanting to do this publicaly, it's appropriate to put this stuff on
github. I already have one, so what I got so far can go there

2017-04-20 21:00
That only took a few minutes :-) Existing project now found at:
     https://github.com/Csi18nAlistairMann/eztfl-html5
Upto the github migration I was the Kate Editor
(https://kate-editor.org/about-kate/) for basic text editing. Now I'm in a
local repository of this as github project, I'm using emacs on the command
line - my usual preference when programming.






Upcoming:
mention the G2 and iphone
mention don;t care too much about display port
mention 


is it even possible?

